# Test Apps

The CSD samples are used to test/validate different CSD functionality, and in some cases as examples accompanying the guide (e.g. [camera-sample-custom](#camera-sample-custom) is a source-code example for the topic [Extend CSD > Camera Sample Custom](../guide/extending_csd.md#camera-sample-custom)).

## Build the Samples

To build the samples enter the following command from the CSD root directory:

```
make samples
```

The samples are then run as described in the following sections.

## camera-sample-client — Test Avahi/RTSP publishing

This sample outputs all RTSP streams being published by *Avahi* (it can be used to test CSD *Avahi* publishing).

To run this sample:
1. Start the CSD for your platform:
   > **Tip** Here we assume that the sample is being run on Ubuntu. On other systems use a different [CSD Configuration File](../guide/configuration_file.md)
   ```
   ./csd -c samples/files/ubuntu.conf
   ```
1. In a separate terminal (or on another computer connected to the target drone on the same network) run the sample:
   ```
   ./samples/camera-sample-client
   ```

The program will output all published CSD streams. Below we show example output for a system with a single camera attached:
```bash
Service resolved: '/video0' (rtsp://10.0.2.15:8554/video0)
TXT: ["name=VirtualBox Webcam - Integrated " "frame_size[0]=MJPG(640x480,160x120,320x180,320x240,424x240,640x360,848x480,960x540,1280x720,1920x1080)"]
```
<!-- How do I enable log debug? -->


## camera-sample-mavlink-client — Test MAVLink publishing of RTSP streams

This is an interactive sample to test MAVLink publishing. The available streams are listed and the selected stream, with the selected resolution, is played.

To run this sample:
1. Start the CSD for your platform:
   > **Tip** Here we assume that the sample is being run on Ubuntu. On other systems use a different [CSD Configuration File](../guide/configuration_file.md)
   ```
   ./csd -c samples/files/ubuntu.conf
   ```
1. In a separate terminal (or on another computer connected to the target drone on the same network) run the sample:
   ```
   ./samples/camera-sample-mavlink-client
   ```

The output will be similar to:
```bash
Open UDP [5]
Bind UDP [5] 0.0.0.0:14550
Camera Daemon found: sysid: 42

Streams found:
1 - Integrated_Webcam_HD

    Please make your selection (type stream number):
1
Select Horizontal resolution (0 for default): 
0
Select Vertical resolution (0 for default): 
0
Stream Information:
   Status: not streaming
   Resolution: 1280x720
   URI: rtsp://192.168.8.1:8554//video0
```

And if *gstreamer* client *gst-launch-1.0* is installed, the selected video will be played.


<!-- Open issue: https://github.com/intel/camera-streaming-daemon/issues/132 -->

## camera-sample-custom — Demo code for Extending CSD

This sample demonstrates how to extend CSD by adding extra streams. This sample exports all streams exported by CSD and one extra stream with a dummy video generated by the *videotestsrc gstreamer plugin*.

> **Note** This sample accompanies the guide material in: [Extend CSD > Camera Sample Custom](../guide/extending_csd.md#camera-sample-custom)

To test it:

1. Run the example using configuration for your platform:
   ```
   ./samples/camera-sample-custom -c samples/files/ubuntu.conf
   ```
   > **Tip** Here we assume that the sample is being run on Ubuntu. On other systems use a different [CSD Configuration File](../guide/configuration_file.md)
   <span></span>
1. Watch the video identified by /custom using *vlc*, for example:
   ```
   vlc rtsp://192.168.1.1:8554/custom
   ```
1. (Optional) Use the `-h` argument to list the sample's other command line options:
   ```
   ./samples/camera-sample-custom -h
   ```
   
<!-- Open issue: https://github.com/intel/camera-streaming-daemon/issues/131  -->